#  Process
## What worked well?
During the planning stages of Phase I our group laid out software development procedures to ensure that we worked effectively as a team. One of the most crucial elements to our team’s success is our use of the “scrum” software development framework. This began by splitting group members up into either “front-end” or “back-end” developers, also by assigning and setting realistic coding tasks for each group member at the beginning of each scrum iteration. The combined tasks would form the milestone for each week. These tasks and milestones would then be logged and recorded on Github. As the week progressed, our group would hold multiple in-person and online scrum meetings to ensure timelines were being met. Our group would also hold informal Facebook chats throughout the week to seek the group’s advice on problems that were encountered.

We found this process to be quite effective. Splitting the group up into front end and back end teams allowed members to specialize and become experts on their respective sections of the product, enhancing the whole group’s collective productivity. Furthermore, we noticed that frequent meetings kept our group abreast of fellow group member’s progress. Members who completed their tasks early could then offer assistance to those who needed it. Additionally, we noticed that holding informal Facebook chats worked quite well as it allowed us to quickly bounce ideas off each other without having to assemble the whole group.

## What worked poorly?
One aspect of our process which we initially struggled with was coordinating in person meetings. Each of our group members have a very demanding course schedule making it very difficult to find mutually agreed upon meeting times. Fortunately, we were able to solve this conundrum with the use of our very own Calendar product. Each group member would input their obligations into a calendar and using the “overlay” feature we were able to determine which times worked well for everybody.

If you had to continue and design your process what would it look like? ie ideal process
Since the process our group used worked very well our “ideal” process would likely closely resemble the process we implemented. In a perfect world we would have liked to hold meetings once a day, everyday. Unfortunately, given the time constraints in our lives this is naturally a lofty goal. In a perfect world we would have also appreciated more time for each phase so we would have more time for planning and discussing different approaches