# Product
Our group chose to make a Calendar application. With our product, students will be able to view a wide variety of events, from lectures to even birthdays; this all-encompassing tool will allow users to seamlessly manage their schedules on the web. After creating an account, students will have the ability to subscribe to a school and then to courses they are enrolled in. Students will then be able to see their schedules in a web calendar displaying information such as the times and locations of lectures, tutorials and upcoming events.

Our product showcases many unique additional features which set it apart from rival calendar applications. For instance, our product solves the common administrative issue whereby the professor forgets to update the class calendar in a unique way. Our product allows the instructors of each class to nominate “student admins” from the list of students in that course.These student admins are then given extra privileges including the ability to fix course calendar errors and add additional events. Students themselves also have the ability to navigate to the course page and request to become a student admin.

Another notable feature included in our product is the ability to ‘overlay’ course calendars. A user will typically have many different classes and personal calendars on their account and it will be very likely for their main calendar to get crowded. By allowing the user to filter by calendar type the user is able to better manage their schedule.

One final exemplary feature that is unique to our product is our Calendar’s notifications tool. A user will receive notifications to their homepage when the system needs to convey important information such as: a reminder for an upcoming event, or if they have just gained student admin privileges.     
